(whooshing)
All right, in this one we're gonna talk
about our signup mutation.
This one's pretty interesting
because we both have a signup mutation
which allows someone to sign up,
as well as we have a query that will run
after the user has signed up,
and now we're gonna check
if they're in the logged state.
The sign in would work exactly the same way.
So let's go ahead and jump into that.
Go to our test folder, make a new file,
call it signup.test.js.
Gonna just go into our reset test,
grab everything from the top here, paste it in,
going to make sure that we import the signup component
in the mutation, which is the signup mutation.
I have not yet exported it from this file,
so make sure you go ahead and do that.
And then we're going to import it in here, from signup.
So we have our mount, wait, toJSON,
MockedProvider, Signup.
We also want to import the CURRENT_USER query
from our user component.
We also wanna import the fakeUser function
from our test utils.
And I believe that's all we need for now.
Now we're gonna go ahead and write some mocks,
so const mocks is equal to end array,
and we're also gonna actually,
before we even do that so let's make a fake user,
so const me is equal to fakeUser.
Inside of our mocks, we are going to have one request
that has a query of SIGNUP_MUTATION,
and the variables that it's going to pass
when it's being called is everything that is in me.
We also wanna pass along a password,
as that doesn't get passed along in the fakeUser.
The result of this mutation,
some data,
that has signup.
Inside of there you have a type name, so __typename,
that returns a user,
the id of the user that gets returned, abc123,
the email, me.email,
and the name me.name.
So, whenever someone calls a signup mutation
with these variables,
make sure that you return this result
with the typename of user,
their ID that was generated on the server side,
quote and quote, and then the email
and the name that's associated with that user.
Then we also wanna make a second mock.
So this is the first one.
Maybe we'll put a little comment above it,
signup mock mutation,
and then below it we want
to have a current user query mock.
So that's another one.
The request is a query,
so CURRENT_USER query,
and the response, or the result,
I always call it response,
is data, me, I'm gonna type,
pass a typename,
user.
You also wanna spread me
and let's just check that test utils
fakeUser has orders and has cart,
so I don't need to pass anything like that.
Looking good.
Actually do we pass a typename with our fakeUser as well?
We do, so it's unnecessary to even pass that,
so this can be greatly simplified.
Let's actually bring that all the way back.
Data is an object, where me is equal to me,
and you can just remove that and put me,
and I think that will be enough for what we're looking for.
Let's go ahead and start doing some testing.
So we will describe
sign up
it renders and matches snapshot,
and then we'll go ahead and look for
the form that's inside of that,
expect toJSON, wrapper.find the form tag,
or you can put a data-test on there to find it as well.
We expect it to match snapshot
toMatchSnapshot.
Getting an error, oh it should be a sync, there we go.
Sign up is not defined, lowercase u,
and now we've written a snapshot.
Let's look at our signup.snap.
We have our form, the field set,
sign up for an account and looks good.
So that means it's actually rendering out,
working fine for us.
Then we actually need to test the mutation,
so it calls the mutation properly.
Now, this one's a little bit weird
because we want to be able to call the mutation,
which is sign up, and then we also wanna query
the current apolloClient to see
if that user is in the Apollo store,
and there's not a great way to just directly query
the Apollo store because
it's not like we can just import it
from another file because it's only available
to us when we're inside of our provider.
We ran into that situation a couple of times
in some of our components.
So after talking with the Apollo devs,
this is the best way to pull the apolloClient out,
and that is with the ApolloConsumer,
much like we did in some of our components.
Let's actually just take a quick look.
ApolloConsumer, where did we...
We did that in the search.
Remember we did this, we imported ApolloConsumer,
and then what we did
is,
we exposed the ApolloConsumer
and then that gives us the client,
and then we're able to pass that client over
to the onChange event,
which will allow us to manually fire off these queries,
and that's exactly what we're gonna be doing except
for searching for items,
we're going to be searching
for if the user has been logged in or not.
So we're gonna make a temporary variable
called apolloClient,
and that's gonna be set to nothing.
Then when we mount our MockedProvider
we'll set that apolloClient to the actual client.
So const wrapper is equal to mount,
and inside of that MockedProvider.
The mocks that get passed are the mocks
that we created earlier.
Inside of that we need the ApolloConsumer,
and then inside of that you have a render function,
which gives us the client,
and then right here we can say apolloClient
is equal to the client that was passed.
See how we're sorta like grabbing it
and throwing it back up a level
to that variable that we created?
And then we're going to return the signup component.
Looks like we didn't import ApolloConsumer.
Let's do that real quick.
And looking good.
So what we should be able to do is,
if we await, wait, we should be able
to console log the apolloClient
and have actual access to the apolloClient.
Let's see if that works.
Yep, here is our apolloClient that we have here.
You see that we have the cache,
you have the store,
and everything else.
This is the query and the mutation.
These are the functions that will allow us
to manually call the queries and mutations.
That is exactly what we're going to do.
Good, so let's actually just call wrapper.update,
make sure everything is in it's state.
Now we wanna fill out the name, the email,
and the password fields,
and earlier we were doing something like this,
wrapper.find.
We were looking for the input,
and then we were simulating the change event,
and then passing this event,
and that got like a little bit verbose.
So what I'm gonna be doing is I'm gonna write
a little reasonable function called type,
which will allow us just to pass the wrapper,
the field that we wanna fill out,
as well as the text that we just wanna fill in to it,
so let's just go to the top of this file here,
and we're going to make a function called type.
That takes in a wrapper, a name, and a value,
and what that's going to do is gonna call wrapper.find.
We're going to search, use back text here, input,
with a name that is equal to the name that was passed.
Then we're going to simulate
the change event,
and then pass the target
with the name and the value that we have set.
Now we should be able to, oh that should not say type,
that should say wrapper.
Now we have this nice little handy, dandy type function.
We can go back down here,
and we should be able to just call type.
Wrapper, name, me.name.
Then same with the email,
and then the password it's going to be wes.
So it's a nice little clean implementation of how it works.
That is a string.
Nice little clean implementation of typing into it.
It's kind of a shame that Jester Enzyme
doesn't have something simple to that,
like type in input where you have to
write all of this simulating change
and pass an entire event,
but this is kind of a nice way to go about it.
Then we'll update the wrapper again,
because we wanna make sure that
the values are actually in there.
Wrapper.find.
We'll find the form and we will simulate a submit on that,
we'll await wait.
I find that you don't always have to do this,
but I was finding that like one
in every like 10 times the tests ran,
I got into like a weird little race condition,
so by putting this in here it ensures
that my events are always fired in the right order.
Then we are going to query the user
out of the apolloClient,
so query the user out of the apolloClient.
So const user = await apolloClient.query,
and the query is going to be the current user query.
You may be saying like, Wes,
why are we querying the current user?
Well, if we look at the signup.js,
and we look at our form submit,
we are running this signup function,
and then when that's done it's going
to re-fetch the queries of the current user.
So once this mutation is successfully finished,
it should have the current user in our state.
So we're gonna try that, expect the user...
Let's actually just console that log first,
just make sure we're working.
What is this?
Simulate, uh, buh, buh, buh.
Got a bit of an error here, let's figure that out.
No more mocked responses.
This is an error I get all the time.
It usually it has to do something
with the way that I've typed my mocks,
so it's telling us that we are passing the name,
the password, and the email,
and calling signup.
So let's look at our mocks real quick.
So I just spent probably an hour
on debugging why this wasn't working,
because this error tells me
that there's no more mocked responses for the mutation
with the following piece of detail,
and I console log everything and it all lined up,
and then I finally figured out that
the email in the original component,
the signup component has to be first,
so it has to be email, name, password,
that makes it pass,
but if I put it name, email, password,
it breaks, and I think that's because
that's what it's lined up to
with the variables that get passed here.
So now it's, what is it, name, email, password?
So if I change it to name, email, password, it passes.
So, why the order of the variables being passed
has to match the order of the state?
Or the order of the variables being sent here, I don't know.
I just can't figure out exactly what's going on.
I'm sure it's something simple that I'm totally missing,
but if you are also hitting that error,
make sure that your state
has name, email, password, and this is name, email...
That they're in the exact same order.
So that is up and running,
a bit of an odd one.
Let's keep rolling here
We got our query.
Now we are console logging the user.
So if we take a look at what we've got,
you see the data.
It says me, the ID, the email, the name,
and then a permissions and stuff.
So what we're gonna check is that this fake user
that signed up is now in the apolloClient,
so expect the user.data.me to match object me.
Bum, looks like a little error,
so it's expecting this object,
got this object, the difference is that
it is expecting the orders Array of empty,
and this one isn't,
so I wonder if we open up our user component,
we are not passing the orders,
for each order we'll grab the ID.
And everything passes because our query
didn't have a orders and it should.
So that is how we are testing the signin.
We want to expose the apolloClient
and then manually fire off these queries
against it to see that the data is
actually being set into our Apollo store.